---
layout: post
title:  "Wilbur - An Intelligent Tutoring System"
date:   2020-07-28 16:00:00 -0400
categories: its, reading
tags: its
author: Ryan Angelo
read_time: true
---

Recently, I started working on an Intelligent Tutoring System (ITS) to help students improve their reading comprehension skills. Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS) are platforms that allow for students to learn concepts and receive feedback through the use of computers. Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS) are software systems that work with students to help with learning a skill. Fundamentally, ITS provide feedback to students in order to facilitate learning and growth.

Wilbur will be an ITS that provides the framework required to build lessons that help students improve their reading comprehension skills. Wilbur focuses on two main aspects of ITS that are lacking in other implementations. First, Wilbur works towards providing student engagement, and has the framework in place to provide feedback that is at the appropriate level for the student’s performance. Second, Wilbur focuses on providing teachers with a simple way to create lessons for students, making the system approachable and user friendly. Wilbur is a web-based tool, providing easy access to students and teachers in remote learning-based scenarios.

I wanted to spend time with React, so the UI is built using the React framework and the backend uses Spring Boot.
My next steps are to improve the feedback system and start adding some machine learning capabilities to adapt the difficulty of the passages and the depth of the feedback that is provided.